Busy Lamp Field
is a feature
that allows monitoring the working
status of other extensions or trunks
through pre-configured indicators of an IP phone.
MyPBX now allows BLF to subscribe the state of PSTN and GSM trunk.
A solid green BLF indicator
means the extension or the trunk is free.
A solid red indicator says busy.
A flashing red indicator tells you the extension or the trunk is ringing.
The feature needs both IP phone and MyPBX to support.
As an illustration,
we use IP phone of extension 500 to monitor
extension 501 and trunk pstn1.
Log in the Web interface of the IP phone.
Extension 500 is registered on Line 1 of the IP phone.
Click "Phone"
and "DSS Keys".
Use DSS Key 1 to monitor extension 501.
In the pull down list of Type,
choose BLF.
Fill in 501 in the value field.
Choose the line that extension 500 is registered to for Line.
In the field of Extension, enter the feature code of call pickup
and the extension number,
i.e. asterisk 04501.
Next, we use DSS Key 2 to monitor trunk pstn1.
In type, also select BLF,
the "Value" is the name of the trunk that is to be monitored.
Choose Line 1
and leave the extension field blank.
Save the settings.
From the BLF indicators of extension 500, we can see that
when extension 501 is free,
the DSS Key 1 indicator is green,
when 501 rings, the indicator blinks red,
and when 501 picks up, the indicator shows solid red.
In addition, when 501 rings, we can press the DSS Key 1
to pick up the call.
When the call is picked up, the indicator turns green,
meaning 501 is idle.
Monitoring trunks is almost the same as monitoring extensions, except that there is no call pickup function
but the monitored trunk can be directly picked.
If pstn1 is free,
and when we press DSS Key 2, we will have dial tone.
In this case, extension 500 can directly calls out through this trunk
without matching any outbound routes.
Note that this method only works for PSTN trunk but not GSM trunk.